Salmon Ontology Meeting Agenda
==============================
MINUTES        
-------
+-------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|DATE               | March 4, 2011  1:00 pm PST                               |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|TYPE OF MEETING    | Coordination                                             |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|CALL IN            | WebexURL_ (Number: 579 865 360, Password: Ont0l0gy)      |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|NOTES              | Chris Jones                                              |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|ATTENDEES          | Brodie Cox, Sam Elmore, Chris Jones, Matt Jones,         |
|                   | Cathy Kellon, Mark Schildhauer, Mara Zimmerman           |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

**Initial Agenda**

1. **Introductions**  (5 minutes; all) 

  | Brodie Cox: Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW); 
    Biological Data Systems Manager scoping JMX; Migrate all systems into 
    modern db systems
  | Sam Elmore: Sitka Tecnology Group
  | Chris Jones: National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS)
    Software Engineer
  | Matt Jones: NCEAS; Director of Informatics Research and Development
  | Cathy Kellon: Ecotrust, State of the Salmon; Project Coordinator; Salmon
    populations; Interest to make use of data from natural resource agencies and
    across jurisdictions; Help increase capacity of agencies to manage and 
    share data
  | Mark Schildhahuer: NCEAS; Director of Computing
  | Mara Zimmerman: WDFW; Juvenile and abundance modeling
  | Matt Kungle: WDFW; field biologist
  
2. **Overview of the WDFW/NCEAS collaboration and the high level project goals.  Discuss project timeline and deliverables.**  (10 minutes; Matt) 

  | Matt & Mark: Within this project we intend to help clarify the entities, 
  | attributes, and relationships within salmon biology. We are also exploring
  | the effectiveness of ontological approaches. Developing an ontology is the 
  | main activity of the project, however, although unfunded, enabling a data 
  | discovery and subsetting system that leverages ontology is desirable.
  
  | Specifically, we plan to: 
  | 1) Clarify the semantics of data being collated in JMX program; 
  | 2) Develop a formal ontology that integrates into existing software tools
  
  | To this end we need to: 
  | Work with the WDFW group and others to understand the status of JMX. 
  | Create a draft ontology based on the discussions. 
  | Electronically review the ontology for correctness, completeness. 
  | Review and critique the ontology at a later meeting. 
  | Then, when we are happy with the results from this iterative process, we 
  | would then annotate real world JMX data using the ontology, which will 
  | likely be very illuminating. 
  | Chris will be working 7-8 months @50% time.
  
  | Cathy: State of the Salmon could potentially bring funding to have a 
  | regional workshop to bring management perspectives and communicate results 
  | of the project.
  
  | Mara: Question about ontologies: What is it?? What's the product?? How does 
  | it compare to a data dictionary?

3. **Coordination on workshop in WA. Discuss goals for the trip, materials that will be needed prior to and during the visit, who will participate, and solidify dates (tentatively Mar 21-25, 2011).**  (10 minutes; Chris, Brodie, Mara) 

  | Brodie sent example JMX files via email; Brodie is available both weeks
  | of and on.
  | Mara is available Tuesday March 22, but not other days; Week of April 4 is
  | better
  | Matt and Justin are available March 21-25, week of April 4
  | Mara: the JMX project includes both primary data and derived data. What do 
  | we focus on? Provide Chris with 1) similarities, and 2) highlight the 
  | hotspots of controversy.
  | 
  | Decision: Chris will travel March 21 to WDFW in Olympia. On March 22,
  | Mara will provide initial direction. March 23, 24, Chris will work with
  | Justin Miller & Matt Kungle, and will conference call with key people
  | from other regional groups. 
  | Brodie: Max created the JMX XSDs with input from other groups.
  | Brodie: Comment: Knowledge engineer won't have domain expertise ...
  
  | Matt: Chris will try to capture relationships.
  
  | Mara: Focus on WDFW smolt monitoring data first: not NW Indian 
  | Fisheries Commission/individual tribes.
  
  | Cathy: Sure, focus on a subset of the data for pragmatic reasons. Then at  
  | theregional workshop, test data from other groups.
  
  | Matt: Part of the goal is to deal with the data heterogeneity; we don't want
  | to be taking already-integrated data, because that defeats the purpose.
  
  | Mara: It complicates the process dramatically. 20 individual tribes,
  | different personalities, etc. Maybe focus on juvenile data at WDFW.
  
  | Cathy: Where are there places in the process where it makes sense to bring
  | in other groups to partner with?
  
  | Matt: **Concentrate on WDFW data to produce the ontology, then test**
  | **ontology with other data sets from other groups.**
  
  | Cathy: SOTS can bring others to the table.
  
  | Matt: Get one data set example from each group, and the same data
  | represented in the JMX formats.
  
  | Brodie: Windsor and Associates are making the XML Schema XSD files. We 
  | should be in contact with them.
  
  | Cathy: Monitoring methods integration: How does it fit in? Chris will work 
  | with Sam on this.

4. **Houskeeping.  Quick discussion on the shared code and documents repository, and coordination with the other semantic tools projects at NCEAS.**  (5 minutes; Chris) 

  | Chris: We will set up a Subversion repository to store shared files for the
  | project. Ontology code will be integrated in with other semantic tools
  | work currently underway at NCEAS.
  
  | Matt: Are their any data access issues due to proprietary data?
  
  | Brodie: Regarding data access: public data could be abused, however
  | abundance estimates samples are fine.
  
  | Cathy: To her, the definition of proprietary: do the data fall under FOIA or 
  | not? The answer, in this case: No - the data are not proprietary.
  
  | Mark: We can set up a private area within the shared folders to hold
  | documents for just the group to see.

5. **Meeting Adjourned around 2:10 pm**



.. _WebexURL: https://wadismonthly.webex.com/wadismonthly/j.php?ED=167163862&UID=0&PW=NNjM4MDkxNzM4&RT=MiM0
